Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
developer express, become a UI
superhero with dev express controls
and libraries. Deliver elegant.net solutions
that address customer needs today
by leveraging your existing knowledge,
you can build next generation
touch enabled solutions for tomorrow,
you can download your free
30 day trial@dxdothanselminutes.com. That's dx.hanselminutes.com
from hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes,
all weekly discussion with web
developer and technologists. Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number four 34. In this
episode, Scott talks with Jesse
stern shoes about applying improv
to agile and lean startup
models. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman. This is another episode
of Hansel minutes, and I'm
talking with Jesse staring shoes
from the improv effect@improveffect.com. How
are you? I'm doing great.
How are you? Lovely. And
unlike all of my very
organized talks and podcasts, where
we have an agenda ahead
of time, this episode of
Hansel minutes is entirely improvised.
We have not prepared because
that's what you do all
day, as you do improv.
Exactly perfect. Would an improv
person be talking on a
tech podcast and what is
it that you do around
improv as it relates to
programs? Because you're, you're at
conferences all the time. You're
at Ruby conferences and I
met you at a technical
conference. Yes, that is true.
I've made my way in
to find your people. How's
it feel Spying on us
from other, what is your
name? Don't tell that that
was the strategy. I just
wanted to be a spy,
a low tech spy in
a high tech environment. So
what is the improv effect
to do? So we do
training for a lot of
developers or UX designers, UX
experience people. And what would
we do is we work
with them on either communicating
more effectively or thinking in
a more creative and innovative
way. So I feel like
the skills that an improviser
brings to the table and
the skills that a developer
brings to the table are
sort of creative minds, but
have two different types. And
so the marriage of those
two minds come up with
something really interesting. And so
that's why I've kind of
found my niche among the
developers and the techie world.
And is this getting people
to think differently is about
changing one's perspective. It is
so that's part Of it.
So I usually like to
start with making sure that
everybody can communicate first. So
if nobody can talk to
each other and they're all
sort of doing their own
thing in their own silo,
then there's no reason to
be innovative and start solving
problems. If the whole problem
is they can't even communicate.
So a lot of times
that's where the issue lies
first. And then we move
on and start to think
about problems in a more
creative and playful way and
try to get them to
think there for Lee. But
while having fun, When I
think about improv personally, the
first thing that comes to
mind is a thing here
in the U S called
comedy sports that people may
have seen on shows like
whose line is it any
way, which is a, a
pull up a way of
exercising. The improv part of
the brain through, through play.
Is that, is that what
you're trying to do? What
I say to people sometimes
when I walk into a
room of developers and they
hear that I'm the improv
person, they sort of freak
out and want to pitch
themselves out of the building.
And so what I say
to them is, you know,
what if we changed the
word to improvise, you know,
how does that relate to
what you do every day?
And all of a sudden,
everybody in the room is
like, Oh, we do that
all the time. So the
skills of an improviser, whether
they're in comedy sports or
second city are the same
skills that are useful for
any person in everyday life.
So I'm not asking a
developer to put on a
comedy show when I'm asking
them to do is sort
of fill their toolbox with
better ways of thinking about
things of problem, solving of
communicating with one another, which
are all the things, you
know, that second city might
be doing on stage For
folks who are listening and
are not familiar with that
term. Second city, that's a
very famous improv group that
created a lot of famous
comedians that have ended up
on movies and shows like
Saturday night live. It's almost
an incubator for comedians. Exactly.
And so, you know, they,
they all practice the skills
of being a good improviser,
which is what they do
when somebody throws them a
curve ball, when they're on
stage and making up something,
can they go with the
flow? Can they think about
it in multiple ways? Can
they solve a problem without,
you know, any notice whatsoever?
What they're very practiced at
is developing their team skills.
So they know each other
really, really well. And they
work together really, really well.
So no matter what's thrown
at them the night of
a show, they can sort
of handle it with ease.
And I think that those
are the same kinds of
skills you should have on
any team. You know, it's
interesting that when I've done
improv in the past, one
of the first things that
people assume is that, Oh,
well, they're just a natural,
right? I'm not a natural,
therefore I will never be
good at improv. And this
person is clearly a natural.
Therefore they're going to be
awesome, but this is a
muscle that you have to
actually exercise. It is. And,
and even, so for me,
I've been doing improv since
I was 10 years old.
And I can, when I
take a week off that
my muscle hasn't been worked
in the same way that
it should have. And so
it's just like, if you
play a sport, you know,
and you're, you're doing a
sport and then you sort
of stopped to go on
vacation and you come back
and you're, then you're sore
again. And you're sort of
not as agile, it's the
same thing. It's the same
sort of thing that you
need to develop. So, And
also the, the idea of
generosity when I was doing
improv, I was reminded that
you all have to kind
of go with it. You
don't want to make it
all about you, especially when
you're in a team. Right?
Exactly. So it's all about
the team. Oftentimes when people
hear are improv, they think
standup comedy and that's very
different. So improv is all
about teamwork and collaboration, which
again, I think relates back
to, you know, teams of
people at work that you're
all working together towards a
goal and you can improvise
to get there. So a
plan is great, but usually
it gets thrown out the
window. It doesn't go the
way that you wanted it
to. And so the more
you collaborate well with each
other, the better you can
get. And if you, if
you try to pull things
back your way to make
it about you, or, but
I had a joke that
I was working up to
and you've messed it up.
Exactly. So that to me
is like, when somebody on
your team, I compare that
to, you know, somebody on
the team thinks they're clever.
They have this great way
of solving a problem, or
they have the simple hack,
but not everybody else is
on board. So it sort
of throws the whole process
to a halt. And that's
a, that's a sense of,
it's a kind of selfishness
isn't it Is. And so
again, like the improviser's mindset
is all about making your
partner look good. And, and
so we say like, make
your partner look good and
you look great, make your
partner look bad and you
look worse. So it's, it's
all about setting up the
other people for success, and
then it will come back
towards you. So that speaks
to working in teams. I
think about, about tech. One
of the things that my
boss is really good at
is he doesn't make it
all about him. He's always
trying to make it all
about us. The 10 of
us that work for him.
And he's, he's generous with
his, with who gets the
credit. So in the context
of improv, like, it doesn't
matter if the big laugh
and the payoff happened because
your partner got that big
laugh. Cause in the end
it makes all of you
look good. So, you know,
if you're, you're getting up
there and you're pitching your
product to a bunch of
VCs and you know, there's
a couple of you collaborating
on that pitch and somebody
sort of forgets where they
are. You know, the worst
thing you could do is
just like, wait for them
to like figure it out.
It makes you all look
bad at the end. So
I encourage people to like,
you know, step up to
the plate. Like if you
can sense that somebody's forgotten
where they need to be,
then you take over and
give them a chance to
breathe, like be a good
teammate. And in the end,
you'll all look good for
it. One of the other
muscles that seems to get
worked a lot is the
idea of keeping the big
picture in your head. I
there's this term in, in,
in comedy about calling, having
a call back. And this
is that feeling you get
when a comedian, you know,
has some joke and then
maybe 15, 20 minutes later,
they reference it. That joke
from before. And then the
audience suddenly is on the
inside. And the audience is
like, Oh, we were all
here 15 minutes ago. When
that, when he told that
joke and then he just
referenced it, it was a
call back. Those things happen
when the person who's giving
the show is keeping the
big picture in is in
their mind. And they see
an opportunity for a callback.
Exactly. Yeah. Or we call
that, you know, finding the
game, what is the game
of this, of this scene?
You know? And so why
don't you find that game,
you know, your eyes on
the prize. So you know
how to call it back.
And I think that relates
to having that like end
goal, like I said, in
mind or strategy in mind
and, you know, but not
forcing it down other people's
throats. So, you know, it
may be that that goal
needs to shift, you know,
or that end goal needs
to go somewhere else, but
sort of understanding how we
can get there and multiple
ways as a team is
the best thing possible. Well,
when you're dealing with teams,
there's a lot of kind
of relationship dynamics. There's people
who are trying to push
a sense of power or
control. Other people are more
likely to, to let go.
How do you kind of
affect and adjust those dynamics
to make sure that you
move forward and, and, and
get what done, what needs
to get done? Well, I
think first, you know, you
understand what the makeup of
your team is. You spend
time getting to know each
other and understanding dynamics. The
next thing is like, you
know, an improv, we work
that muscle of being in
the moment and staying present.
So we understand that every
moment needs something different and
we don't just go and
attack a problem the same
way every time we're creative
with what each moment needs,
you know, and then it
might be that, you know,
we're, we're taking the lead
or maybe we're the product
owner, but, you know, sometimes
taking a lead is taking
the back seat and letting
other people step forward. And
you can only know that
by a reading the moment
and be knowing what the
big play is, what is
the big end result that
you're trying to get to?
Yeah. That, that sense of
being in the moment and
in the one sense, like
I am in this, this
minute, this, this, this discussion,
but at the same time,
where am I trying to
take us today, tomorrow, next
week? What's our big value,
you know, what do we
value as a company, as
a product or in the
context of improv as a
skit? Yeah. I mean, I
think a lot of times,
you know, we make assumptions
sometimes based in the corporate
world, like based on people's
titles or based on the
customer, the way the customer's
acted before, you know, or
the stakeholders acted before. But,
you know, they may have
had a really terrible morning
and we think we're going
to go out then the
same way we always have.
But in, in truth, that
moment needs you to either
step up and play like
the higher dynamic, or maybe
it needs you to step
down and let them feel
like they came up with
all the ideas. You can't
just keep doing the same
thing the same way every
time. So you have to
be really able to actively
be aware of what every
moment needs. That sense of
self awareness. That's a muscle
you have to work on.
I mean, I think that
there, there are people to
just go through their life,
their business life with a
complete cluelessness about how their
actions affect others. And that's
part of what, you know,
what we do at the
improv effect is we come
in and use play, you
know, and use exercises and
experiential learning for them to
have fun and be self
aware, like become more self
aware and aware of others,
but they're doing it in
a way that's nonthreatening. So
workshop, if you're laughing while
you're figuring that out, that's
a lot better than like
a very high risk threatening
situation when they probably would
have been better for you
to figure out how you
come across, you know, much
earlier. Yeah. Yeah. Well, you
want to, you want to
fail fast. Exactly. And you
learn from it again like
that self awareness is key.
And I think it's a
lot better to find out
who you are when everybody's
having a good time, rather
than like be, you know,
sent over with the dunce
cap in the corner, like
to be reprimanded for how
you're acting. You know, Companies
should do more funds, structured
activities like this. I feel
sometimes like companies just say,
let's all rent a cabin
and have a bunch of
alcohol. And they call that
team building. This is much
more structured. It is. It
is. And you know, I
have a lot of conversations
with clients. They're like, well,
we're thinking of bowling or
you, you know, and I'm
like, thanks. So what I
think, you know, what we
do is, is effective to
learn all of these outcomes,
whether you want to communicate
better, whether you want to
work better as a team,
whether you want to understand
your customer, you want to
think about your product different.
And then a side benefit
is you're going to have
fun and it's going to
be it's team building, but
why not learn? There's no
reason why you can't like
fun and learning need to
be in two separate categories,
you know? Yeah. I think
the bowling versus you juxtaposition,
that's a, that's a little
tough. How are we going
to grow as a, as
a family, as a team
in the bowling alley? Yeah.
So great. You know, if,
if the outcome you want
is just like an outing
to get away, then good
have fun, you know, but
if you actually want to
learn something that you can
utilize the next day and
get up and start weaving
it into what you're doing
every day, then why not
do something like this and
enjoy it at the same
time, like, you know, laugh
to the point of tears,
you know, while you're learning.
And I can't think of
something better than that. You
know, When you, when you
talk about relationship dynamics and
how your, how your, what
your response is, how what
you do affect your team
or affect your, your, your
client. I know that you've,
you've talked about the idea
of understanding what your natural
role is within the team.
And then of course it
could be stretching outside your
role. What does that mean
to find your natural role?
Does it mean like I'm
the one that talks a
lot or I'm the one
that's super quiet. Yeah. So
exactly. So like in what
environments, like given X environment,
what do you act like
in a typical way? Like,
are you, are you really
good listener? Are you the
one who's just waiting for
your chance to talk all
the time? Are you the
one who's steamrolling everybody at
a conversation? Do you, do
you not pipe up? You
know, when we have these
big standup meetings, what are
you, what are you doing?
And evaluate that, and then
play with how you could
step up, you know, or
step down and kind of
test out what it's like,
what kind of response do
you get if you put
on a different hat, you
know, But how do you
do that in an authentic
way? I mean, I always
talk about authenticity cause I'm
a community focused individual, but
whenever I'm complaining about this
at work, I just kind
of like this isn't authentic.
And I ended up using
that word kind of as
a, as a cudgel, but
like, you know, I want
to be, to be real.
I don't want to be
fake. I don't want to,
but at the same time
we are manipulating the situation.
A sales person wants to
sell a marketing person, wants
to impress upon the public
with their product. How do
you be real without being
fake? Well, I think first
you practice and that's exactly
why, you know, doing a
playful workshop to kind of
in a very low stakes,
you know, way say like,
Hmm, what kind of outcome
happens if I, if I
act like this, what happens
if I act like that?
Just kind of playing around
with it and practicing it
to kind of find where
you're comfortable and like where
you're pushed to your outer
limits so that when it's
back to like the regular
run of the day, you
know, you've kind of played
around with it and you
can still find how to
be authentic within each of
those situations. That really resonates
what you just said about
in a low stakes way.
I think the listeners and
folks that are listening to
this podcast should think for
a second about when do
you get to practice some
of the skills that you
use at work, your communication
skills, your speaking skills, your
understanding, power dynamics and how
things work in a group.
You know, when was the
last time you had you,
you went and met with
the CEO of a company
you were trying to sell
and then said, Oh, and
landing like that. Let me,
let me try that again
and see how you react.
That will be much, much
better. You're always in a
high stakes environment. Right. And,
and the thing is like,
you know, companies spend so
much money on like technical
training and you know how
to get this in this
new, you know, spending go
to whatever, you know, but
yet if they can't communicate
what they're trying to solve
to other people and they
can't talk to each other
and they can't think differently,
then how can you even
like utilize the technical training?
Do you know what I
mean? Yeah. Well, I think
basically we worked so hard
to get the tech, right.
And then when it comes
down to getting the presentation
or the, whether it be
something like what I do
talk at a, at a
conference or a press release,
it's kind of just making
it up. And you're like,
yeah, it kind of felt
right. We'll see if it
works out. Okay. And well,
and that's exactly how I've
ended up at all these
places, you know, is because
I think people are starting
to realize that like attention
should be paid to the
people part and the, like
the thinking differently and the
creativity and that that's just
as important as the, the
other process, you know, and
the other technical skills that
most of the breakdowns happen.
Not because of technical reasons,
but because people can't like
communicate with one another very
well. Yeah. There's a lot
of talk in the tech
space around presentation skills and
public speaking and whether or
not a talk should be
educational or edutainment, which is
what I call my personal
brand of, of work. Some
people have watched my talks
and said, well, that was
just silly. You know, that
was just a bunch of
jokes. And there's been some
really powerful and intelligent people
in the tech space who
have said that, you know,
there's too much personality driven,
public speaking going on. It
shouldn't be about the, the,
the, the person who's speaking
the entertainer, you know, how
do you find that balance
between like, I really want
to be a great, funny
presenter. I really want to
convey the message. I don't
want to be too dry,
but at the same time
I am, I am selling
whatever I'm selling. So, I
mean, whenever I work with
people, I'm putting together their
presentations, I always start with
the, you know, the question
of what do you want
the outcome to be? So
when your audience leaves after
they've heard you speak, what
do you want them to
say, do and feel, and
then reverse engineer your talk
back to that and make
sure that everything that you
put together and your talk
aligns back to those three
things. If it doesn't, it's,
it's fluff and it probably
doesn't have to be there.
And on, I mean, obviously
if you have a longer
talk that you can give,
you can fluff it up
a little bit. Right. But
if you have, like, you
can only give a seven
minute talk, then make sure
it's just, you know, down
to the core and simplicity
of making sure it addresses
those outcomes that you want
for your audience. I think
we pay so much attention
to what we're going to
say. And we forget that
like, presenting is all about
our audience. It's not about
us. It's about them, you
know? And so who is
our audience? You know, what
effects do we want to
have on them? And then
does this align. So if
you want to have the
effect of like teaching them,
you know, some new programming
language, but you want it
to be fun and not
mundane, then you want them
to leave laughing and learning.
Then having jokes is fine,
you know, because it's evoking
an emotion that you intended
on having your audience feel,
right. It's the, it's the
being Intentional, actually having a
plan. You don't want to
accidentally have them laughing at
you now. And if you
do then, like, I mean,
sometimes that happens, right? We
can't control how everything's going
to go down in the
moment of giving the presentation.
I think that's why getting
comfortable around improvising is important
because we can take that
sort of mistake and make
it a new, like gem
of our talk. Like it
could be that moment that
makes us more endearing to
our audience, more relatable to
our audience than ever before.
So I think, you know,
getting caught up in like,
oops, they laughed where I
didn't want them to and
looking at it and beating
yourself up about it. When
in turn it could have
been, you know, the thing
that sort of broke the
barrier between us and them,
you know, It's so it's
so frustrating for me as
a person who has to
not only give presentations, but
also watch them to see
people lose control of their
talks. And I just feel
like, Oh gosh, that's not
what you intended at all.
No. So, so I'm definitely
not saying throw caution to
the wind and don't prepare.
Like, I, I think the
best thing you can do
is prepare to the point
of being able to improvise.
So that means preparing so
well that no matter what
happens the day of, you
know, the core of your
narrative and your message and
you know, what outcomes you
want, that you can still
get to the goal by
improvising. And that way you
don't lose sight, but you
can't do that kind of
thing easily if you're not
prepared. Yeah, exactly, absolutely prepared
and be prepared for things
to fail and what you're
going to do when those
things fail and failure might
be some code didn't compile,
or it might be the
audiences and who you thought
they would be. Exactly. Exactly.
So again, like, can you
take that moment? That's not
going the way that you
had prepared for and still
remain the expert and get,
get to the end, you
know, and still have the
same outcome that you wanted.
What does that mean? Being
the expert. I know some
people have said that again,
don't make it about you,
but you, you and your
presentations and your workshops talk
about what it means to
be the expert. Yeah. I
mean, if you're asked to
talk, you're the expert on
that subject, right? It's, it's
your material, it's your narrative.
Like nobody else has that
narrative. So you have to
own it. And to me
being the expert means like
both what you're saying is
prepared and also that your
voice and your body language
match your expertise and words.
So oftentimes I'll see people
that are phenomenal at what
they do. Like they're amazing
developers, but when they get
up to present, I lose
all confidence in them because
their body language and voice
are so distracting that I
don't think of them as
the expert anymore. All I'm
focusing on is that, you
know, they're fidgeting with the
clicker the whole time, you
know, and staring at their
feet. But is it too
much to ask that everyone
be good at public speaking?
Are we, are we, are
we setting an expectation that
someone can be an amazing
developer and also an entertaining
person? Yeah, No, I think
again, you practice it just
like anything else, like, let's
say you want to be
a Ruby developer, you know,
you might take some courses
and start learning and you
start practicing and then eventually
like you work on a
project and you get better
and better, it's the same
thing. So, you know, if,
if your goal is that
you want to be an
expert presenter, you know, go
to a user group and,
and do it again, like
low stakes, low risk, or
do a workshop, then do
a user group, then, you
know, kind of build it
up in small steps to
where, you know, then you're
at the several thousand people
conference in front of people
by yourself. You know, What
did, when I wonder why
people look at, for lack
of a better word, soft
skills like this as being
so, so magical, this idea
that it's it's so it's
intimidating, you know, code. I
understand, but you know, I
can't compile my, my talk
that I'm about to give,
but it really is about
intentionality. You, you practice it,
you sit down, you do
it and you revise factor
and recompile After you engineer
it. That's what I said,
like, look, see what, you
know, what is that thing
you're trying to accomplish? What
does that end product you're
trying to build? And then
you reverse engineer it. I
mean, you build, you know,
you deconstruct it and build
it back together. You know?
I mean, Seems like if
people think about it that
way, then it wouldn't one
argue that the average developer
who has those skills already
should be an early awesome
presenter, meaning, meaning if you
can break these things down
and then, you know, do
it, I think that more
people should do it. And
I think that more people
should practice. I fit. I
feel like there's so few
speakers, like if you look
at the speakers and sort
of our world, and I
consider myself in your world
in terms of speaking, like
I would say like the
majority of the conferences during
the year, I've spoke with
at least five of those
people, no matter where it
is, whether it's in Australia,
London here in the States,
because there's just not enough
people like trying. And I
think we should encourage people
to try and a practice
and a low risk way.
And then eventually we'll get
more people and we'll have
more experts out there and
more people sharing their unique.
Yeah, absolutely. I think that,
that there are in some
cases the same people and
I'm guilty of this as
well, you know, it's like,
Oh, there's that, there's that
guy again, you know, pretty
much get him. And I
have to reinvent myself in
those kinds of things. But
at the same time, I'd
like to hear from people
who aren't giving, giving enough
presentations, I'm sure that whatever
you, the listener are doing
at work is super interesting.
You know, you probably solved
an amazing problem last week.
Why aren't you giving that
presentation on that problem that
you solved at your local
user group? Yeah. And the
thing is like, if they
could just believe in themselves
and realize that what they're
doing is valuable and share
that we as a community
could be so much better
for that, you know, to
have a diverse group of
people that are up and
sharing. Cause it is presenting
is sharing, you know, sharing
experiences and sharing knowledge Said
that the thing that got
me speaking was the feeling
that you get when you've
got you've solved some problem.
I used to people can't
see me cause we're on
a podcast here, but I
would be writing something. And
then I would just kind
of like throw my hands
in the air, like go.
And I'm like, I'm at
a cubicle, of course. And
I'm looking around like, no
one else is impressed with
what's just occurred in my
computer. So then I grabbed
my laptop and I just
go kind of running down
the hallway. Cause I have
to share it with someone.
And again, no one, no
one cares. I'm just a
weirdo. You just keep running,
Dude, dude, did you see
this? And then you got
to present it. You got
to share it with somebody
because it's like, this is
so cool. Right? Exactly. As
a community, the tech community
should not have any trouble
finding people to talk about
cool stuff We shouldn't. And
yet we do. Yeah. Yeah.
And when you say a
diverse group of people, we're
not just talking about gender
and color and culture, we're
talking about diversity of thought,
different, different ways of thinking
about problems. Yeah. Yes. That's
how we all become better.
We are probably not getting
the whole picture about how
problems can be solved because
someone is not giving a
talk. I totally agree. My
buddy Damien Edwards and I
call the developers that we
don't hear from dark matter
developers because as the dark
matter, you know what makes
up the large amount of
the universe, but we can't
prove that it exists. That's
great. I think they're out
there. I think, I think
they're out there too. If
you listen real hard, you
can hear them. We spoke
in Norway and you were
giving talks there. What did
you speak on in Norway?
So I talked about, I
did some interactive type of
workshops around the way that
teams, agile teams interact and
helping them interact more effectively
and, and solve problems in
a more playful Right now,
when you do these kinds
of workshops and discussions, you're
not just teaching immuno standard
comedy improv to developers, you're,
you know, about lean and
lean startup and agile. You,
you not only know the
buzzwords, but you live the
buzzwords and then apply your,
your improv concepts to those,
those worlds. Exactly. I mean,
I remember like seeing the,
and the agile manifesto for
the first time and being
like, this is, this is
improv, like with, you know,
different lingo. This is exactly
what improvisors do. And then
the lean startup thing took
it even further. You know?
I mean, I did a
whole talk about how like
breaking down the lean startup
model and comparing it to
an improviser's comedy set and
how like each piece is
just like the same thing
as the lean startup. Why
do you think that people
take concepts like agile and
lean and then consequently improv?
And they, they say, Oh,
well, agile is just an
excuse to be sloppy, you
know, an improv. Well, that's
just making stuff up. Yeah.
So that's not true at
all. And that frustrates me
to no end. Yeah. So
I think, I mean, to
me like the core of
lean and the core of
agile is, is the way
that we communicate and the
pace at which we do
that and that, you know,
that everyone's on the same
page all the time or
that we're not coming up
with ideas based on what
we think people will like,
but we're getting out of
the building or actually listening
or having empathy and we're
understanding what people's needs are.
And then we're developing something
based on those needs, you
know, Right. Lean is about
learn, measure, code, rinse, repeat,
but the trick is minimizing
that time and not spending
a year to learn you
spend learning the day. Right.
And that's the same, like
as an improviser. So let's
say we're doing a comedy
show. We asked the audience
like to tell us about
something. So we hear what
their needs are. Then we
instantly start building that product.
Right. And we start testing
it out. And if the
audience claps and we keep
going forward, that's our validation.
Right. So we know that
this is working and we
should keep doing more of
that. If the audience is
kind of like, you know,
maybe we found the game
of the scene, but we
need to kind of shift
and pivot to go in
a different direction. And if
the audience isn't responding at
all, then we've learned like
in real time, as fast
as possible, not to do
that anymore and to move
on, you know, and to
me, that's just like the
lean startup. Yeah, exactly. I
mean, the product is, is
a happy audience and a,
and a great piece of
material that you might then
take from improv and expand.
I'm sure that you've probably
had improv skits where you've
said, you know, we should
do a short video on
this or Yep, exactly. And
we all talk as a
team afterwards and we say
like, what worked, what didn't,
you know, we stand up,
we talk about like each
part that worked and we
say what didn't work. And
we say, okay, we don't
want to do that again.
Cause that didn't work. So
like if we failed at
something, what can we learn
from that? So we don't
do that again. Right? Yeah.
I hope that people who
are listening kind of get
a sense of the intentionality
of this and the, the,
even though it's loose when
you're watching it, there's a
formality and a structure to
this that is similar to
the kind of structure you
need to apply when you're
doing agile in your engineering
environment. Yes. There is absolutely
a structure to everything that
we do. So we know,
again, we know what that
framework is and we know
what the end goal is.
Right. But then we don't
know what's going to happen
in between, but we have
the framework to keep us
together. And part of the
framework is maybe the game
and part of the framework
is us as a team,
you know, and we have
all of those things to
keep some sort of structure
So people can learn more
about what you're doing and
the concepts that you are
applying to engineering@improveffect.com. I'll put
a link in the show
notes and they can also
go out and we'll put
some videos of your presentations
and, and your, your things
that you've done. That sounds
great. Thank you so much.
Thank you, Jesse staring shoes
for talking to us about
applying improv to the lean
startup and agile models. This
has been another episode of
Hansel minutes and we'll see
you again next week.